README.md, before:

[![MEAN.JS Logo](http://meanjs.org/img/logo-small.png)](http://meanjs.org/)

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/lirantal/meanboardn?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Master Branch: 
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lirantal/meanboard.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lirantal/meanboard)
[![Dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/lirantal/meanboard.svg)](https://david-dm.org/lirantal/meanboard)

## About MEANboard

MEANboard is an open source dashboard framework starter-kit project based on [Freeboard](https://github.com/Freeboard/freeboard) and [MEAN.JS](https://github.com/meanjs/mean):
* Freeboard is a UI frontend framework for Dashboards which provides the JavaScript infrastructure for generating a dashboard layout, widgets, and polling for information from the client side to remote APIs.
* MEAN.JS is the open source MEAN stack framework for developing JavaScript based apps on-top of NodeJS, ExpressJS, AngularJS, and MongoDB. This project doesn't actually make use of the AngularJS part because it uses Freeboard.

### Example view for the MEANboard:
![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/316371/9605453/77964194-50c6-11e5-85d2-6f2461402363.png)


## Prerequisites
Make sure you have installed all of the following prerequisites on your development machine:
* Node.js - [Download & Install Node.js](http://www.nodejs.org/download/) and the npm package manager.
* MongoDB - [Download & Install MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads), and make sure it's running on the default port (27017).
* Bower - You're going to use the [Bower Package Manager](http://bower.io/) to manage your front-end packages. Make sure you've installed Node.js and npm first, then install bower globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g bower
```

* Grunt - You're going to use the [Grunt Task Runner](http://gruntjs.com/) to automate your development process. Make sure you've installed Node.js and npm first, then install grunt globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g grunt-cli
```

## Cloning The GitHub Repository
The recommended way to get the project running is to use git to directly clone the MEANboard:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/lirantal/meanboard.git meanboard
```

This will clone the latest version of the MEAN.JS repository to a **meanboard** folder.

## Quick Install
Once you've downloaded the boilerplate and installed all the prerequisites, you're just a few steps away from starting to develop your MEAN application.

The first thing you should do is install the Node.js dependencies. The boilerplate comes pre-bundled with a package.json file that contains the list of modules you need to start your application. To learn more about the modules installed visit the NPM & Package.json section.

To install Node.js dependencies you're going to use npm again. In the application folder run this in the command-line:

```bash
$ npm install
```

This command does a few things:
* First it will install the dependencies needed for the application to run.
* If you're running in a development environment, it will then also install development dependencies needed for testing and running your application.
* Finally, when the install process is over, npm will initiate a bower install command to install all the front-end modules needed for the application

## Running Your Application
After the install process is over, you'll be able to run your application using Grunt, just run grunt default task:

```
$ grunt
```

Your application should run on port 3000 with the *development* environment configuration, so in your browser just go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

That's it! Your application should be running. To proceed with your development, check the other sections in this documentation.
If you encounter any problems, try the Troubleshooting section.

* explore `config/env/development.js` for development environment configuration options


## Support

This project is based on the master 0.4 version of MEAN.JS.
For more questions and support for the MEAN framework used in this project refer to the [MEAN.JS](https://github.com/meanjs/mean) project on Github.


## Credits
[Freeboard](https://github.com/Freeboard/freeboard) and [MEAN.JS](https://github.com/meanjs/mean) open source projects.

## License
(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Updating  section about the freeboard dashboard customization

README.md, after:

[![MEAN.JS Logo](http://meanjs.org/img/logo-small.png)](http://meanjs.org/)

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/lirantal/meanboardn?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

Master Branch: 
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/lirantal/meanboard.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/lirantal/meanboard)
[![Dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/lirantal/meanboard.svg)](https://david-dm.org/lirantal/meanboard)

## About MEANboard

MEANboard is an open source dashboard framework starter-kit project based on [Freeboard](https://github.com/Freeboard/freeboard) and [MEAN.JS](https://github.com/meanjs/mean):
* Freeboard is a UI frontend framework for Dashboards which provides the JavaScript infrastructure for generating a dashboard layout, widgets, and polling for information from the client side to remote APIs.
* MEAN.JS is the open source MEAN stack framework for developing JavaScript based apps on-top of NodeJS, ExpressJS, AngularJS, and MongoDB. This project doesn't actually make use of the AngularJS part because it uses Freeboard.

### Example view for the MEANboard:
![image](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/316371/9605453/77964194-50c6-11e5-85d2-6f2461402363.png)


## Prerequisites
Make sure you have installed all of the following prerequisites on your development machine:
* Node.js - [Download & Install Node.js](http://www.nodejs.org/download/) and the npm package manager.
* MongoDB - [Download & Install MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/downloads), and make sure it's running on the default port (27017).
* Bower - You're going to use the [Bower Package Manager](http://bower.io/) to manage your front-end packages. Make sure you've installed Node.js and npm first, then install bower globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g bower
```

* Grunt - You're going to use the [Grunt Task Runner](http://gruntjs.com/) to automate your development process. Make sure you've installed Node.js and npm first, then install grunt globally using npm:

```bash
$ npm install -g grunt-cli
```

## Cloning The GitHub Repository
The recommended way to get the project running is to use git to directly clone the MEANboard:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/lirantal/meanboard.git meanboard
```

This will clone the latest version of the MEAN.JS repository to a **meanboard** folder.

## Quick Install
Once you've downloaded the boilerplate and installed all the prerequisites, you're just a few steps away from starting to develop your MEAN application.

The first thing you should do is install the Node.js dependencies. The boilerplate comes pre-bundled with a package.json file that contains the list of modules you need to start your application. To learn more about the modules installed visit the NPM & Package.json section.

To install Node.js dependencies you're going to use npm again. In the application folder run this in the command-line:

```bash
$ npm install
```

This command does a few things:
* First it will install the dependencies needed for the application to run.
* If you're running in a development environment, it will then also install development dependencies needed for testing and running your application.
* Finally, when the install process is over, npm will initiate a bower install command to install all the front-end modules needed for the application

## Running Your Application
After the install process is over, you'll be able to run your application using Grunt, just run grunt default task:

```
$ grunt
```

Your application should run on port 3000 with the *development* environment configuration, so in your browser just go to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

That's it! Your application should be running. To proceed with your development, check the other sections in this documentation.
If you encounter any problems, try the Troubleshooting section.

* explore `config/env/development.js` for development environment configuration options


## Customizing

### Freeboard as a library
MEAN.JS utilizes the Freeboard project by requiring it as part of the depenencies for bower when it's installing. So basically this means that Freeboard is just another UI library that is installed into the public/lib/ folder.
To view this dependency you can refer to the bower.json file and find the following
```javascript
"freeboard": "https://github.com/Freeboard/freeboard.git"
```

### Freeboard HTML page customization
The MEANboard project simply copies the index-dev.html version of the Freeboard project into the server-side view located at modules/core/server/views/index.server.view.html

That static HTML page is served by the controller at modules/core/server/controllers/core.server.controller.js

### Adding Widgets

#### Defining the routes for the widgets
Routes for the widgets are defined on the server-side routing at modules/core/server/routes/core.server.routes.js
Controllers for the routes are defined at modules/core/server/controllers/dashboard.server.controller.js

#### Freeboard widgets through the UI


## Support

This project is based on the master 0.4 version of MEAN.JS.
For more questions and support for the MEAN framework used in this project refer to the [MEAN.JS](https://github.com/meanjs/mean) project on Github.


## Credits
[Freeboard](https://github.com/Freeboard/freeboard) and [MEAN.JS](https://github.com/meanjs/mean) open source projects.

## License
(The MIT License)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
